XRDDEV-1420 Kubernetes Security (#49)
nordic-institute/X-Road-Security-Server-sidecar: doc/kubernetes_security_guide.md

# Kubernetes Security Server Sidecar Security User Guide <!-- omit in toc -->

## Version history <!-- omit in toc -->

 Date       | Version | Description                                                     | Author
 ---------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------
 25.01.2021 | 1.0     | Initial version                                                 | Alberto Fernandez Lorenzo

> #Table of contents

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Table of contents
```

```

We can then consume these secrets as a volume in Kubernetes, i.e. by including the Secret under the definition of volumes in the Pod deployment manifest. We should define the key name, path and permissions, and then mount the volume on a path inside the container.

Below is an example of using Secrets in a Pod deployment manifest file (**Reference Data: 3.13, 3.14**):
``` yaml
[...]
volumes:
- name: <manifest volume name>
  secret:
    secretName: <secret name>
    items:
    - key: public-key
      path: id_rsa.pub
      mode: 0644
    - key: private-key
      path: id_rsa.pub
      mode: 0644
[...]
   volumeMounts:
   - name: <manifest volume name>
     mountPath: "/etc/.ssh/"
[...]
```

## 3.2 Secrets as environment variables

This example shows how to create a secret for the Security Server Sidecar as environment variables with sensitive data.
- Create a manifest file called for example 'secret-env-variables.yaml' and fill it with the desired values of the environment variables ( **Reference Data: 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 1.9, 1.10**):

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yaml
```

After the Pod Security Policy is created, you can verify that the sidecar-eks-user under the namespace sidecar-psp-restrictive can use the eks.restrictive Pod Security Policy with the following command:
```
kubectl --as=system:serviceaccount:sidecar-psp-restrictive:sidecar-eks-user -n sidecar-psp-restrictive auth can-i use podsecuritypolicy/eks.restrictive
```

Now the user sidecar-eks-user should be able to create pods that match the conditions on the Pod Security Policy eks.restrictive.

# 7 Monitoring
The following steps are recommended for monitoring using AWS CloudWatch so that we can detect potential security risks in your Cluster.

- **Collect control panel logs**: The control plane logs capture Kubernetes audit events and requests to the Kubernetes API server, among other components. Analysis of these logs will help detect some types of attacks against the cluster, and security auditors will want to know that you collect and retain this data.
AWS EKS Clusters can be configured to send control panel logs to Amazon CloudWatch. At a minimum, you will want to collect the following logs:

>   · api - the Kubernetes API server log.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * api - the Kubernetes API server log.
```

>   · audit - the Kubernetes audit log.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * audit - the Kubernetes audit log.
```

>   · authenticator - the EKS component used to authenticate AWS IAM entities to the Kubernetes API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * authenticator - the EKS component used to authenticate AWS IAM entities to the Kubernetes API.
```

- **Monitor container and cluster performance for anomalies**:  Irregular spikes in application load or node usage can be a signal that an application may need programmatic troubleshooting, but they can also signal unauthorized activity in the cluster.  Monitoring key metrics provides critical visibility into your workload’s functional health and that it may need performance tuning or that it may require further investigation. For collecting these metrics, it is required to set up Amazon CloudWatch Container Insights for your cluster.

- **Monitor Node (EC2 Instance) Health and Security**: EKS provides no automated detection of node issues. Changes in node CPU, memory, or network metrics that do not correlate with the cluster workload activity can be signs of security events or other issues.

# 8 Backups

> The restoration of backups is a process that is executed with root permission, therefore it can lead to potential security risks, therefore we must only recreate Backups from reliable sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The restoration of backups is a process that is executed with root permission and therefore it can lead to potential security risks. Please ensure the backup files are coming from trusted sources before restoring them.
```

# 9 Message logs

> The backup of the log messages may contain sensitive information. Therefore, as described in [the Kubernetes User Guide](https://github.com/nordic-institute/X-Road-Security-Server-sidecar/blob/master/doc/kubernetes_security_server_sidecar_user_guide.md#8-message-logs-and-disk-space), it is recommended to save the automatic backups in an AWS EFS type volume and periodically send the backups to an AWS S3 Bucket with encryption both in transit and rest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The backup of the log messages may contain sensitive information. Therefore, it is recommended to save the automatic backups in an AWS EFS type volume and periodically send the backups to an AWS S3 Bucket with encryption both in transit and rest. More information can be found in [the Kubernetes User Guide](https://github.com/nordic-institute/X-Road-Security-Server-sidecar/blob/master/doc/kubernetes_security_server_sidecar_user_guide.md#8-message-logs-and-disk-space).
```
